README.md, before:

# A Laboratory Introduction to git

This repository contains resources for a lab-style git tutorial. By
“lab-style,” I mean that most of the time in supposed to be spent with the
learners quasi-independently working their way through a set of tasks in small
groups, with “lab assistants” available to answer questions as they come up.
In my experience, this is the best way to teach something like `git` in a
group, since people move at such different paces.

The tasks are described in a thorough “lab manual” handout. The [pre-built
PDF][handoutpdf] is available online. Freshness not guaranteed.

This tutorial is aimed at scientists. It brings up some mathematical concepts
but tries not to assume much in the way of programming skills.

[handoutpdf]: http://newton.cx/~peter/files/git-lab-handout.pdf


## Contents

* `slides/` contains some HTML slides for a *very* brief introduction to `git`.
  They have no notes and probably won't be super helpful for anyone other than
  the original author. They use [reveal.js] and the template might be of
  interest; see my [htmltalk] repository and accompanying [blog
  post][slideblog].
* `handout/` contains `LaTeX` source for the printed lab manual. It uses
  `XeTeX` and a few nonstandard fonts and packages, so it might take a few
  tries to compile.

[reveal.js]: https://github.com/hakimel/reveal.js/
[htmltalk]: https://github.com/pkgw/htmltalk/
[slideblog]: http://newton.cx/~peter/2013/09/slides-for-scientific-talks-in-html/


## Contributions

Are welcomed! File a pull request or send an email or whatever works best.

Commit message:

PRESENTER-NOTES.md: log some notes for next time

README.md, after:

# A Laboratory Introduction to git

This repository contains resources for a lab-style git tutorial. By
“lab-style,” I mean that most of the time in supposed to be spent with the
learners quasi-independently working their way through a set of tasks in small
groups, with “lab assistants” available to answer questions as they come up.
In my experience, this is the best way to teach something like `git` in a
group, since people move at such different paces.

The tasks are described in a thorough “lab manual” handout. The [pre-built
PDF][handoutpdf] is available online. Freshness not guaranteed.

This tutorial is aimed at scientists. It brings up some mathematical concepts
but tries not to assume much in the way of programming skills.

[handoutpdf]: http://newton.cx/~peter/files/git-lab-handout.pdf


## Contents

* `slides/` contains some HTML slides for a *very* brief introduction to `git`.
  They have no notes and probably won't be super helpful for anyone other than
  the original author. They use [reveal.js] and the template might be of
  interest; see my [htmltalk] repository and accompanying [blog
  post][slideblog].
* `handout/` contains `LaTeX` source for the printed lab manual. It uses
  `XeTeX` and a few nonstandard fonts and packages, so it might take a few
  tries to compile.
* [PRESENTER-NOTES.md](./PRESENTER-NOTES.md) logs notes from times when I’ve
  presented the tutorial, to serve as reminders for the next time I revise the
  materials in preparation for another presentation.

[reveal.js]: https://github.com/hakimel/reveal.js/
[htmltalk]: https://github.com/pkgw/htmltalk/
[slideblog]: http://newton.cx/~peter/2013/09/slides-for-scientific-talks-in-html/


## Contributions

Are welcomed! File a pull request or send an email or whatever works best.
